Solr (pronounced "solar") is an open source enterprise
search platform from the Apache Lucene project. Its
major features include full­text search, hit highlighting,
faceted search, dynamic clustering, database integration,
and rich document (e.g., Word, PDF) handling.
Providing distributed search and index replication, Solr is
highly scalable.
Solr is the most popular enterprise search engine. Solr 4 adds NoSQL features.
Solr is written in Java and runs as a standalone full­text
search server within a servlet container such as Apache
Tomcat or Jetty. Solr uses the Lucene Java search library
at its core for full­text indexing and search, and has
REST­like HTTP/XML and JSON APIs that make it
usable from most popular programming languages. Solr's
powerful external configuration allows it to be tailored to
many types of application without Java coding, and it has
a plugin architecture to support more advanced
customization.
Apache Lucene and Apache Solr are both produced by the same Apache Software Foundation development
team since the two projects were merged in 2010. It is common to refer to the technology or products as
Lucene/Solr or Solr/Lucene.

In 2004, Solr was created by Yonik Seeley at CNET Networks as an in­house project to add search
capability for the company website. Yonik Seeley along with Grant Ingersoll and Erik Hatcher went on to
launch LucidWorks (formerly Lucid Imagination), a company providing commercial support, consulting
and training for Apache Solr search technologies.
In January 2006, CNET Networks decided to openly publish the source code by donating it to the Apache
Software Foundation under the Lucene top­level project.
Like any new project at Apache Software
Foundation it entered an incubation period which helped solve organizational, legal, and financial issues.
In January 2007, Solr graduated from incubation status and grew steadily with accumulated features,
thereby attracting a robust community of users, contributors, and committers. Although quite new as a
public project, it powers several high­traffic websites.

In September 2008, Solr 1.3 was released with many enhancements including distributed search capabilities
and performance enhancements among many others.

November 2009 saw the release of Solr 1.4. This version introduces enhancements in indexing, searching
and faceting along with many other improvements such as Rich Document processing (PDF, Word,
HTML), Search Results clustering based on Carrot2 and also improved database integration. The release
also features many additional plug­ins.

In March 2010, the Lucene and Solr projects merged. Separate downloads will continue, but the products
are now jointly developed by a single set of committers.
In 2011 the Solr version number scheme was changed in order to match that of Lucene. After Solr 1.4, the
next release of Solr was labeled 3.1, in order to keep Solr and Lucene on the same version number.

In October 2012 Solr version 4.0 was released, including the new SolrCloud feature.

2013 has seen a number of Solr releases already, including 4.1 in January, 4.2 in March, 4.2.1 in April and
4.3.0 in May, including many improvements in the Solr Cloud features such as custom sharding
